hello guys and welcome to my channel
let's Tuesday L in life and I go live
every Tuesday on my channel 12 p.m.
California time so feel free to join and
ask me questions and during the last
livestream I got loads and loads of
questions about my US visa and my
current status in the United States so I
decided to dedicate the whole video to
the story of getting my American visa
and if you're interested in details
please continue watching this video some
life story where the state started back
in 2013 when I first came to America on
my tourist visa which is b1 b2 and I got
it to just travel and to be a tourist in
America and I came to Miami I fell in
love with the climate fell in love with
the country and I'll started looking for
ways to spend more time in the States
and the most viable way for me at that
time was getting into an American
University to do my masters or MBA and
if you've been watching my channel for a
while you know that I got into American
universities with Fulbright scholarships
because I thought maybe I should do my
masters first and then figure out
whether I want to stay or what I want to
run a company or maybe go back to Europe
but also during my application process I
was my team and I were building a
start-up which is lingua trakone and we
were running out of money we were trying
to raise money in Russia we couldn't do
that and our dream was always to raise
money from Silicon Valley investors but
at that time it seemed like a dream
anyway we tried we applied to as many
accelerators as we could we wrote to all
of the investors in the Silicon Valley
and we were able to get into a 500
startups the accelerator this is the
t-shirt of 500 and all very short we
were able to get this investment and we
came to the Silicon Valley again we came
on tourist visas to take part in the
accelerator program and also start a
company the coolest thing is that you
can start a company in the States even
being on a tourist visa so you can start
a company you can do the fundraising for
your company and this is what we've done
and during the accelerator I was talking
to a lot of immigration lawyers I was
asking them what is the way for me to
stay in the country and run my company
and there was so many lawyers who told
me like unfortunately because you don't
have masters from the state so like you
don't have this and that qualifications
it's impossible for you to stay
and it was so upset because we're
already registered a company in the
state and raised some money from
investors and I started talking just to
fellow entrepreneurs here in the valley
and soon I found out that the most
common visa here is oh one which is
extraordinary ability visa and asked a
couple of lawyers about it and they were
like oh my gosh extraordinary ability
visa is only for people who go to Nobel
Prize or like won the Olympic Games but
here like it's very important to find
the right lawyer and one of my friends
introduced me to his lawyer who is an
official or Y Combinator and so that
lawyer said that I have chances to get
this oh one extraordinary ability visa
and later I found out like every person
that I know here who is foreign is only
he's a 1 visa or a b-1 which is untrue
which is extraordinary ability green
card and by the way guys I'm not an
immigration attorney so please like
every situation is unique so please
consult your immigration attorney I'm
just sharing my story and what it took
me to get the visa so after I talked to
this lawyer I decided to start the
process and it was August 2015 and I
needed a lot of documents and I'm going
to go through the list
I might have weighed the file that I had
the file that I collected was like this
and actually filmed a video from my
russian channel back then you can sit
here and you can see how many documents
I've had so you can imagine how much
time it took me to prepare everything
there are several criteria to get an o1
visa and you have to be strong in at
least three criteria so one of the first
criteria was membership in an
organization that is really hard to get
into so we used 500 startups as this
organization because the acceptance rate
to 500 is like I know 3% so it's really
hard to get and the founders of 500
startups the managing partners thrown me
a letter proving that I
extraordinary and they accepted linguae
trip because of my knowledge in the
sphere of study abroad and because of my
accomplishments in that sphere second
publications about me and about our
company that seemed quite tricky at the
beginning and I talked to some people
and they said hey you can hire a PR
agency and they're going to fix you the
articles but this is going to cost like
ten thousand dollars and I was like oh
my god we just raise one hundred
thousand we need to build a product I
cannot just spend $10,000 on the article
by the way lawyers are really really
expensive if you want to get like this
one visa so I just waited for American
magazines to write about us and I was
reaching out to a lot of journalists and
I was able so we were able to get tech
courage to write about us because they
write about every 500 set of badge and
then many other media caught with
TechCrunch so we had like I know maybe
like 20 articles and all the submitted
articles from Russian press and yeah so
there were some articles in the Russian
press as well and I took part in some
blogs so there were bloggers who invited
me to come to speak so this was all
really helpful I think number three
recommendations from professionals in
your sphere and we asked like schools
that will work with and we asked people
that we knew it Airbnb and people from
five hundred and some of our advisors
from Google we asked them to write
commendations and also investors proving
that I am again they wrote this amazing
letter so that I'm extraordinary there
is there a special templates you can
google them like how the letter should
look like they emphasize my achievements
and they were talking about how I was
able to take linguae trip to the point
that it is right now so this was another
tick in my application and also we try
to make my case as compelling as
possible so we submitted all kinds of
evidence we could provide including my
GMAT TOEFL admission letters from Johns
Hopkins from the University of Florida
my articles that are published during
the university time even the Olympians
and competitions
I won when I was a school child and the
da-ad scholarship that I want for
Germany like everything we submitted
everything that's why the case will like
this thick and it took them I think two
months to review the application so in
two months I received the approval
notice that my own status is approved
and that I needed to get a visa so I had
to travel I went back to Russia and
applied for my visa as a Russian
consulate I got in like in another month
and then yeah I was able to travel to
the States
and work for my company and I also have
some friends who knowed entrepreneurs
but who are researchers who are on oh
and visa
I even have like friends for designers
who are in finance yeah I think I have
all kinds of friends and if you prove
that you are an extraordinary ability
specialist in your sphere by providing
articles about you letters of
recommendations and other evidence then
I think any specialist can get it I
don't know like consult so this is my
opinion because I've seen so many people
getting go one visa but please consult
the immigration lawyer who can help you
with everything and the nicest part
about this visa is that once here in the
states you can apply for a green card
which is really cool I think it's very
important to know the price for this
visa because it took me like around
$8,000 to apply for it I know it's very
expensive at the same time I know people
who did the visa themselves so they just
paid the application fee
because the lawyer dolorous legal fees
are the biggest chunk of the sum that
I've mentioned but I would say like to
be safe rather be safe than sorry it's
better to hire an attorney or a lawyer
I don't know that were just lawyer think
immigration lawyer so yeah this was my
short story about my visa if you have
any questions to me please write them
down below in the comments I hope you
enjoyed watching this video and I will
see you on Tuesday 12 p.m. California
time life or in the next video which is
next week don't forget to subscribe to
this channel and I will see you soon bye
bye
[Music]
you